Hi and welcome back in this video we're looking at the delete command which allows you to delete rows
from your tables but delete command is dangerous because of the warning issued in the last video delete
allows you to delete everything in a table unless you specify specific rows to delete.
So I'm going to say delete from and then the table name items.
And if I run this query I'm screwed.
To put it simply in my case I have very little data so I wouldn't be that badly.
But if you have a large database with things that you care about don't forget the where because if you
do you will be in a lot of pain.
So I'm going to delete from items an ID equals 1 in 4 and that would delete the item number 4.
And is an important thing to remember.
That way if I run this query I'm not sure if it'll work or not.
Let's run it.
And indeed it doesn't quite work because Pasko sequel is smart.
And this is actually going nicely with what we're going to be looking at very soon.
So that is why I am putting this in here.
I'm deleting an item but the Avra says update or delete on table items Violet's foreign key constraint
and then the name of the foreign key constraint on table purchases.
The key ID for is still referenced from table purchases which is great.
Trust me it's great that it doesn't let you do this.
I have another table called purchases.
And in that table I am referencing this item with ID fall and possible sequel knows that I'm referencing
that item.
So it doesn't let me delete it just in case I'm doing it by accident.
What I have to do is go to the purchases stable and delete the rows where the item is used and then
I can delete the item.
This relationship between those two tables is what makes sequel so fantastic and it means that there
is a bit more security or when making a delete to explain why this is being used and how let's select
everything from purchases
and as you can see these purchases table has three columns the ID of the purchase an item ID and a customer
id the item id here at some point is number for them which means that's the way I've constructed this
table Pascua sequel knows that this number four relates to the item in the other table.
So when I try to the least vitam it tells me hey you're all using this item elsewhere.
If you delete this item then this thing here is going to break and you don't want that.
So what I have to do is delete this row here and then I can delete the item.
So let's do that deletes from purchases.
Where item ID equals four.
And they will delete all the purchases made of item 4 which is the item.
So two rows were affected.
Two rows were deleted.
And now if we select from items then we've got that locked up there.
And we can go the leads from items where ID was full.
And now this will let me do that because it is no longer being used elsewhere.
Notice that you have to set up your tables in specific ways for possible sequel to know that that link
is meaningful.
And we're going to get into how you can do that later on.
But I just want you to realize that delete is dangerous and you have some security if you've set up
your data correctly but you're not going to delete the wrong things.
So it's still it's still very powerful very dangerous.
Boy you have some security there as well.
So this is how you delete from a specific table.
And with that said let's move on to the next video and I'll see you there.